## Data Scientist and Statistician : A comparison
### What Data Scientist is about?
  
A Data Scientist is mostly a blend of statistical skills , programming skills and soft-skills of the business. A data scientist uses statistical knowledge and applies the programming skills to answer questions and solve important problems that can help stakeholders of the company make critical business decision. A data scientist gathers data from multiple sources and performs transformations and exploratory data analysis to understand and explain data and feed it to algorithms like to machine learning, predictive analytics, and sentiment analysis, etc., to get useful information from the data and create predictions that can help in business decisions. In broader terms, it is a role carved out from amalgamation of data analytics, software engineering, data engineering, machine learning, predictive analytic and data analytics. 
 
### Major Duties and /or Knowledge Areas 

Major duties of data scientists mostly include acquiring and handling large chunks of data, storing them in a data base, processing and cleaning data, transforming data to a more simpler form (if needed) and performing initial investigation and exploratory data analysis to find trends and distributions. They 
choose potential model using data science techniques such as as machine learning, statistical modeling, and artificial intelligence that provide best predictions or outcomes, present results to stakeholders, support in deploying the models/algorithms and make adjustments based on feedback and repeat the same steps to solve a new problem.Using their software skills, they use and manage databases and project designs, develop customized data models as per business needs and build processes and tools to help monitor performance and accuracy of models.

Data Scientists have to be proficent in Python, SAS, R, Scala, have hands-on experience in SQL database coding
and be able to work with unstructured data from various sources like video, social media, have an understanding of multiple analytical functions, machine learning, and basic statistical formulations and should be capable of handling large datasets along with experience of retrieval, collection, ingestion, and transformation of large amounts of data, collectively known as big data. 

### Differences/Similarities between data scientists and statisticians

Role of a data scientist can be termed as an extension to the role of what a statistcian does which is applying statistical knowledge using programming languages. So, data scientists and statisticians have a lot in common. Most of which is having good understanding of mathematics or statistics, investigating and solving problems, performing exploratory data analysis and finding trends in the data, visualzing the data and findings and presenting it to the stake holders. 

Data scientists differ from statisticians in many terms. When it comes to automation data scientist use programming languages to develop tools for automating analysis, they use tools for storing data and use querying languages like SQL to fetch the large amount of data.In other words, they utilize software engineering practices to fetch, handle and analyze data and create forecasts.  However, Statisticians collect data manually through surveys etc., and focus on developing simpler models that suits and describes the data best and look to improve the models based on violations of assumptions. They focus more on significance testing, diagnostic plots, quantifying precise relationship between predictor and outcome as well as any uncertainities in this relationship.

### View Self in relation to these areas.

Statistics is the foundation for the data science and knowing how to program is a necessity in the data science field as the statistics is not applied anymore to small sets of data, but large datasets are required to be evaluated. The data is going to expand forever and its going to be a never ending process. So to make handling statiscial formulations quicker and accurate it is important to enhance its applicability using programming languages and tools. In order to use these programming languages and their packages, it is important to know what these packages contain. For example, we cannot simply run a linear regression model in python without knowing concepts of "Mean Squared Error " or p-value etc. Thus, I see statistics to be a first major step in becoming data scientist and learning how to program will eventually complete this transformation to a data scientist. 
